welcome to the rustic garden today I
want to show you how I seats tart
lavender and rosemary indoors a couple
things about lavender and rosemary are
one they germinate slowly they grow
slowly so these are really some of the
first seed you can start indoors they
can take 14 to 28 days to even germinate
and they don't have a great germination
rate so when when you're gonna plant
these we're going to put more than one
seed per cell they also grow slowly so
they can grow in here for 10 to 12 weeks
before they even get to a size that you
would put them outside so you can sort
of do the math today's December 24th
this is going to be about 3 or 4 months
worth of growing time they'll get out
into my garden when frost is still
around but they can take light frost and
do perfectly fine and I'll probably
actually just put them in two cups and
then pull them in and out of the yard or
put them in my greenhouse so you can
start lavender and rosemary three to
four months before they would even go
outside into your garden they're not
going to get big or out of control
lavender you press into the soil I've
covered them lightly in the past this
year I'm just good to go with pressing
them into the soil and then rosemary
gets lightly covered and then the other
thing about both of these plants and
that's why I usually grow them together
is that they germinate extremely slowly
most other seeds I recommend you put
them into your grow closet get them
under your grow lights for instance when
tomatoes pop they all come up at once
they need to be met by intense light
right away lavender rosemary germinate
so slowly you can keep these out of your
grow closet out of the light until you
see one pop-up and once once you see
that one plant pop-up then get them into
your grow closet and it saves you a
little bit of energy by not having to
have lights on until they're really
starting to germinate I use popsicle
sticks to mark my cells and let's start
with the lavender lavender seeds are
really small and like I said lavender
you're just going to press onto the
surface so I'm going to put three or
four seeds into the corners spread out
the germination rate
I find us fairly low my house
temperature always stays in the low 70s
and perhaps if I had a heating mat
lavender rosemary would germinate better
but I don't use them so once the seeds
are down
I already pre-packed my cells with
growing medium I'm using coco coir and
then I thumb pack them down so that
there's a good amount of starting mix in
there and then I'm just going to press
the coco coir down a little bit more
making sure the seeds get pressed into
the growing medium the reason you want
to do that is you want good seed contact
with your growing mediums so that the
water gets absorbed by the seed the seed
swells and the germination will start so
that's all you do to setup lavender and
then I give it a popsicle stick and that
will mark it now rosemary they also have
small seeds and you want to put them
down about a quarter of an inch and I
find usually the instructions on the
packet they're hard to find so hard to
get your seeds to the exact depth
doesn't really matter they say put them
down a quarter of an inch you just want
to get soil over them but I put two or
three seeds into each corner
well I put one seed into each corner two
or three seeds into each cell so each
corner gets a seed and then once they're
in there I know that they're also in a
corner sometimes it's hard to see the
smaller seeds especially when you get
older like me and you need glasses but
refuse to get them so I just press in
the corners and the seeds so that's
about a quarter of an inch then a little
bit more growing medium right on top
cover up the holes and then the same
thing that you did with the lavender you
want to lightly press it in so that the
seed the growing medium cocoa core in
this case make good contact with the
seeds and your lavender and rosemary are
set up now the coco coir my growing
medium is pre-moistened so this dark
color is what it looks like when it has
moisture in it a lot of people say well
when do you water I always bottom water
so I would fill the bottom of the tray
up let the water absorb in dump out the
excess I have videos on that but you
water when here's some coco coir that is
a light color when the top you can see
the contrast when the top starts to go
from this dark color when it has water
to this light color that's when you
water the top will always dry out first
Moisture will be down here in the cell
supporting the seed so when the top
begins to change to the lighter color in
this case it's coco coir but your
growing medium whatever you use will do
the same that's when you water I hope
you enjoyed the video please check out
my block at wgbh bye comm and also check
out my youtube videos thanks